the operations you mentioned scale there
team regenerative
farming uh is obviously a key part of
this business just how
hard is it to scale this technique and
this practice
well there's two parts to scale
obviously the operations to do that and
there are plenty of people who can
manage quite large properties but
there's also
a lot of small properties in australia
and the carbon sequestration piece
is quite hard it's not exactly easy to
do
there are only certain people that are
qualified to do it that the government
will
authorize to to work with you to do it
and it's also expensive if you do it at
small at small levels like if you've got
three four five thousand hectares
that's probably about the minimum we're
looking clearly to do this with hundreds
of thousands of hectares and eventually
a million hectares that makes a huge
difference to the level of carbon that
we can sequester over time
and the second part is actually raising
the money to do it and that's where
we're doing it differently this is a
funds management eventually an operation
and we're looking to raise money from
the public australians
buying australian cattle land and
investing in the future of australian
soils
and as australian carbon sequestration
that's very different
just on the uh carbon sequestation and
the rejuvenation of soil this will
obviously allow you to
sell carbon credit offsets just how
valuable do you think
that revenue stream may be so you know
carbon credits currently trade at around
18.50 they've been in recent years
sixteen dollars
and seventeen dollars the question is
how much do you think it's going to be
worth in the future in our information
memorandum
we've said we don't know what that's
going to be so we haven't included the
revenue
it could be an extra one percent uh
return it could be an extra four percent
return per annum for 25 years so
obviously four percent per annum for 25
years is you get the whole value of your
property back in carbon credit units
that will depend on the supply and
demand for carbon offsets and the
reality is there's a lot of businesses
around australia they're going to find
themselves needing carbon credit offsets
in the future
when they're unable to satisfy uh the
requirements of perhaps european
customers who say you need to be net
neutral next year
and they can't do that so the only way
they're going to be able to do that is
to be able to buy carbon credit units
and this is going to be part of that
supply
what do you see is the biggest
challenges for the fund on this cattle
and carbon play
just the understanding that this is
something that can actually
change our agriculture substantially for
the better
we've been 100 years doing things the
same way
so to change that is hard but i've
noticed over the last couple of years
there has been a substantial change in
the way people talk about regenerative
practices and soil carbon
um you know five years ago you'd go to
beef week and this wouldn't be something
that people would talk about in the
cattle industry now it's right at the
top of people's
minds but it's also that way in the city
as well
you know city dwellers have realized
they're part of the problem in terms of
producing carbon and they need to get
part to become part of the solution
which is investing in solutions to
these problems tim samway thank you very
much for joining us a pleasure
to the markets which were dragged by
materials and healthcare today
the all ordinaries slipping by point two
of one percent
the asx 200 down by a third and the
aussie dollars picking up against the
greenback
james rosenberg from value holst joined
me after the market close
james a fairly lackluster day on the
markets can you take us through the
movers
cathode was there's really not a lot of
direction the market was trading a few
points either side of square
finished down about point four of one
percent in a
general uh tone the resources stocks
were down
bhp rio fortescue all down about one and
a half percent
on slightly weaker commodity commodity
prices these stocks have had an enormous
run of course
uh building stocks were generally a bit
stronger after construction data came
out with a 2.4 percent increase in
in expenditure in the march quarter so
names like james hardy in particular
performed well
bigger moves in some of the smaller
stocks on the positive side
als had a very uh good investor day was
greeted warmly by the market and the
stock was up about 13
and kogan which has had a huge run then
a profit downgrade and a little bit of a
bounce
they saw some selling today and finished
lower okay and cba shares hit a
milestone today they did a hundred
dollars for the first time and they're
the first of the
major banks to hit a hundred dollars it
uh they trade as high as a hundred
dollars and thirty cents but closed a
little bit below the century
really it doesn't mean anything other
than um it's a nice round number to
latch on
in terms of their market capitalization
at 177 billion
they're still over 80 billion bigger
than the second biggest westpac
macquarie not a high street bank they
reached that milestone for the first
time in 2017
but the banks along with the broader
market have had a huge recovery from
last year's lows
massive tailwinds of very low interest
rates and strong housing market
in fact a lot of the tailwinds that
they've had for about three decades
starting to ease may even become
headwinds okay uh overseas now and the
new zealand dollar jump today for
after comments from the rbnz uh
regarding interest rates what did they
have to say
so new zealand central bank kept rates
on hold at 0.25 of 1
but they have come out and said that if
inflation gets to 2
new zealanders can expect to see a rate
rise as early as next year
pretty gentle rate rises they're talking
about up to one and a half percent at
the end of
2023 so a long way from where we are
but in a historical con context pretty
low
we're seeing inflation expectations
starting to rise around the world so new
zealand not a surprise to see them say
that the reserve bank's been doggedly uh
pursuing their line that we won't see
rates rise in australia for a while but
um
remains to be seen how that plays out so
the new zealand dollar up about one
percent against the
american dollar we followed up about
half a percent
james rosenberg thank you pleasure kath
and that's all from the business
i'm catherine robinson thanks for your
company good night
welcome to one plus one i'm kirk fernley
my guest today is the man they call the
reaper
australia's first ufc world champion rob
whitaker
mixed martial arts might be the fastest
growing sport
on earth with 1.1 billion
households viewing it but our champion
is a man with humble roots
[Applause]
[Music]
so
oh
[Music]
rob whitaker welcome to oneplus one
pleasure to be here thank you
but what is the ultimate fighting
championships
um so ufc is just a brand really it's a
company that
that hosts mma fights mma is the sport
mixed martial arts and there's a lot of
different companies and stuff that run
that but i think
ufc is definitely the premier league it
has the the best fighters in the world
and that's who i'm currently employed
with
is mma is it a is it a fight a sport
or is it an art uh he left that job too
it's it's tricky it's tricky because and
then this is something i've been
throwing around for
for a while inside my head obviously um
trying to get to grips because
i do believe fighting per se fighting in
combat and combat sports
is a lifestyle it's not a sport it's not
a job it's a lifestyle
i think every fight you go in changes
you
much like anything in life it yeah how
your experiences change you i think
especially is very prevalent in fighting
because the process changes you
the the goal changes you winning losing
changes you i feel
combat sports in particular is very
lifestyle like
it's you either are or you are not a
fighter yeah
i i see myself as a warrior as a fighter
as a
if we were back three billion years i
three billion
dinosaurs if we were if we were back
you know a a long lag i i'd i'd be in
the front line
i'd be a foot soldier i'd be i'd be dead
within the first few seconds right
but but um that's what i would be doing
i'd be a gladiator i'd be a slave i'd be
fighting something because that's just
who i
am and i believe i was born like that um
in today this day and age with the ufc
and
and how i work and stuff it's it's hard
to say because it is a job
i wouldn't do it if i didn't get paid
like i'm not a thug it is a sport
because there are rules and regulations
but i don't
but you can't approach fighting like
that as a job because
you know um everybody who has a job
there are some days that just go to work
and they just
switch off they get through the monotony
of whatever they're doing and go home
you can't do that in fighting because
someone's trying to take that away from
you so it's very much
you have to go there not expecting
another one you know you have to give
everything
to the fight because whoever sacrifices
more or gives more
is usually the winner it's um it's a
it's a funny dynamic i've been playing
with
in my head and uh haven't gotten there
to a solid conclusion yet
but we're working on it why do you think
it's so popular
uh it's so popular because it's just
it's amazing to watch it's so dynamic
nobody
you don't know what's happening because
the the size of the gloves
and the amount of different sports
involved just
change like there are so many variables
nobody
really knows what's going to happen you
know you don't get boxing and kickboxing
together you get some sort of mixed
hybrid and how they mix it up
is what makes them successful or not and
yeah it's just
exciting and dangerous i saw your hand i
saw the x-ray of your hand when you
thought
uh your romero and the break
that you would take in round one
you would fight for five rounds and win
it yeah well
you fight not expecting a second because
you need to go in there
willing to die willing to give
everything to the fight to give
everything for that win
there's there's no quit because when
you're fighting someone or
my mentality when i'm fighting someone
that's it
there's just me or him to lose is to die
and i don't want to die yet
[Laughter]
how did you get your start in mma mma
my so my my parents got me into martial
arts for
self-defense and stuff it was funny my
dad was telling me a story the other day
he goes
uh and he was just thinking options he
goes he got me into karate because
he knew i'd have to catch public
transport one day and he wanted me
to know like he wanted me to be able to
defend myself so i could catch public
transport by myself
and i don't know why but he was thinking
about at that time he goes i think
you're okay to catch public transport
now
but uh but yeah so it was self-defensing
because my my father was in the army and
and he did taekwondo and so he
understood my mother
has a her uncles did boxing and her
family's always been in that sort of
combat sports so how old were you when
you started i think seven
me and my brother got into karate
together so seven did you have many
fights as a kid
uh not not plenty
so i i so i've always grown up poor i
was always housing commission so i was
quite poor
um and i grew up in an area where
like the the tease word was houseo and i
don't know why but i was very insecure
about that
and i think as any kid would be right
and um
so when if they wanted to get under my
skin they just caught me a house oh and
i i j up yeah we'd be fighting it's
um i didn't get into plenty of fights i
didn't go looking for fights
but uh i didn't like getting
being called a house either so you came
over to australia at a young age
how was your childhood i came over from
new zealand when i was about one month
or two months
i didn't i don't even know if it was
expected for me to be born
in new zealand i think my mother was
just going over to visit family and it
just kind of happened i'm not
not a hundred percent sure the story has
gotten always changes
my parents were together when we
initially here in here in australia and
then they
divorced when i was pretty young i split
up and then i moved in with my father
and now i live with him
what did you learn from your dad later
honestly my biggest role model in life
was was my father
didn't know it at the time which i don't
think any kid does
it's only as i've become an an adult
with uh
my own children and and things like that
that i've realized he was my biggest
role model
just um i don't know just just little
things
just like do the right thing you know
don't cut corners don't quit
that's a big one that stuck with me for
a long time
from the moment that i first saw
wheelchair racing i
i knew i wanted to be there it's almost
as if i i had to be there
when did you know that you were going to
become a professional fighter
um i didn't so i think my journey into
into professional fighting and combat
sports in general
it all it was more of an identity thing
because i was very insecure about being
a household
so i looked to change my identity by
becoming a
fighter i want to be robbed the fighter
not robbed the house
and that's what drove me to fighting
well as well as a natural
you know disposition towards fighting
like i like combat and i always have
and i've been decent at it so i've
always kind of drifted in that
direction anyway but a big thing with me
in taking on fights and wanting to
fight and and is to be that guy which is
also funny because
through that i realized i don't need to
be identified as the fighter to be a
fighter and i became more secure with
myself but um
it started off just as an identity and
then i was fortunately i was pretty good
at it
stripping weight how hard is that one of
the hardest things
anybody will ever do what's the process
a rigorous diet
obviously the last couple of days it's
it's not over an extended period either
right
well it is up until a point so like
for instance i walk around out of season
in about
98 kilos 100 if i have too much takeout
but yeah that's about my weight i fight
at 84.
okay so that's a that's a big drop
already so it takes a lot of diet and a
lot of training
to bring my weight down to a point where
i can
lose the rest of it by sweating
and there there are a lot of like i've
done i've sweat out as much as seven and
a half kilos
a day off and i've done less than that
like i tried seven and a half seven and
a half day of in the sauna
which is obviously not healthy people
have died doing this though sort of
stuff before
um so it's it is a science
you know i don't cut anywhere near that
amount anymore and i've
learnt and i've gotten better at it but
um it's just
it is hard it's a hard process to get
down and unless you've truly
been dehydrated you'll never understand
what it's like to be dehydrated and no
you can't drink for another
you know 12 hours or so it's terrible
when you're doing that as well in the
lead up to a fight i was nervous
every single time i would compete when
you're going into a fight like that
how do you feel the nerves so a big
big thing for me is i switch off i
switch off
i do not think about fighting until it's
time
and that's a that's a big thing with me
that's why video games and books are so
essential for for how i
you know have success in my own way like
how i deal with it is because
i i can unwind by just cutting it off
put it aside and then i play a video
game or i read a book and i'm not
thinking about these fights
and the pressures associated with them
sometimes they seep through and it's
usually around 11 p.m at night when i'm
trying to get to sleep
you dream about it no no fight week
sometimes
sometimes uh maybe yeah sometimes not
not
not not often because like i said i
really try to not think about it at all
until it'd drive you crazy
what about rituals or routines in the
lead-up to a fight
what do you do there it's funny though
like a big thing is i've
purposely not tried not to believe in
superstition and
things rituals and things like that
because i don't want to get stuck
having to do that sort of stuff because
i travel so much with the the fights and
the locations especially now during this
crazy period
there's bubbles and isos and and it's
such a weird dynamic it's so hard to
have consistency with that sort of stuff
plus i like i said i don't want to get i
don't want to get locked into it i want
to get stuck
with it so um i don't have a lot
of rituals or things there are things i
like doing before a fight like i like my
coffee in the morning
i i like no eating certain foods the
night before
i so i like doing this sort of stuff but
the only ritual like that i
i do every fight is prey of course and
uh that's about it
really then you tap your chest oh the
yeah that
that's almost uh a habit now yeah
what does that mean so my father got me
the southern cross on my chest
and uh he told me because he couldn't
always fly with me or come away with me
to these fights and he said
just bang your chest and i know you're
thinking of me so that's where it
started and
it's stuck with me and when you go out
into the octagon
do you have a voice do you have
something that's going on inside
ah so when i'm walking out and
this is this is more relevant when there
was a crowd it was it was about
putting up invisible glass walls to
block me from
the crowd so that it i don't it doesn't
affect me so i can't feel that emotion
coming through
because it's a lot but a big thing is
just
trying to keep my brain together like
when i'm out there because once the
fight starts or the competition starts
there's no thinking
instinct yeah like once the fight
happens so fast there is
there's no time for thing if you're
thinking you've lost because there's no
time there's no room
what about your corner is there
something that they're going to tell you
to fire up
is there a thing that they use to send
you in a certain direction
uh not not really um
sometimes it's worse looking at them
because they look more nervous than me
you know it's it's funny like that
because there's nothing worse than i'm
in the octagon and i'm
i shake my hands i'm rolling my
shoulders and i look up and they look
like they're about to cry
i'm like well you guys are coping all
right you know
it's uh now they're they're they're it's
just it's comforting knowing they're
there
i'm me personally i'm the sort of guy
that doesn't need a lot of talking to
i i i get there myself i know why i'm
there
and i'm very mentally coherent in those
times
leading into the fight i don't need any
more um motivation than this guy's
trying to beat me up
we will you set the fear that you could
see on
the guys in the corner your guys where
does it fit within your prep within you
uh so i don't have a fear of getting
hurt or anything like that i have a fear
of like
of um more than anything er a
failure to perform so i i
i just want to give my all and i want to
display my skill set
to to the best of its ability generally
if i do give a good account on myself i
win
so it's good how that works but that's a
big thing i just
want to perform i want to just display
the hard work that i've put in
but do you think about the fear from
your family sophia
are they afraid when you're going away
i'm sure they're afraid
and suffer like i know my dad for
instance when he's watching he gets
really sick he gets migraine every time
what does he tell you before a fight
not sure maybe you got this and sophia
before you go away um well i'll speak to
her so i'll give him
even whether i'm away or not i'll call
him morning of the fight and i'll speak
to him and i'll say
hey
[Laughter]
and uh there she should be like because
the big thing i don't know why but i
like
knowing their stuff for me after the
fight i think
just a little bit past the fight so i
know so for instance like when
when my last fight or my next fight i i
know the fight's happening today
but also i'll tell myself doesn't matter
what happens
straight after i'll be in this room
within 12 hours playing video games
ordering a pizza
on the on the menu you know like i don't
know that comforts me
knowing that the world goes on and it
takes a little bit of the pressure of
the weight of the result
away and uh so little things like that
i'll talk to sofia and she just
this has the usual stuff so i'm proud of
you love you that sort of thing
it's uh it's hard to take too much in
the conversations at the moment because
i'm
fight day i do nothing but think about
the fight so i try to switch off
90 of the time uh in the lead up in the
prep
in the fight week and i i play a lot of
video games i read a lot of books to
just take my brain away from it all
but fight day in particular that's all
i'm thinking about that's all
that's all i'm doing it's it's it's
there it's time to it's the day i give
to fighting
and um so having conversations with
people is very hard
at that point because i'm thinking i'm
in another world
how do you deal with losses you you
would lose the belt to israel
at essentia how did that affect you
so losing socks it's not great
no it sucks um
and then to lose on that scale obviously
sucked extra
but i guess there was a lot there was a
lot of things going on at the time
that needed to be addressed anyways
which was kind of like an accumulative
effect on
how i was feeling then straight after
that fight i went on a break i had a
break away from the game in the sport
so um did that help oh definitely i
needed i needed i was burnt out from
from from the game if you would um
before that fight but i still went
through with it and everything like that
so i needed to address some things a lot
of things
after that fight and the lost kind of
catalyst was the catalyst for all of it
the way i was training wasn't healthy
for
for my body the way i was feeling i felt
like there needed to be little changes
for about five years i was doing the
same program but i'm not the same person
as i was five years ago so you have to
change and the training has to change
with me
with my aging body and with my my mental
state and with my family life
things had to change and all of it
needed to be addressed
uh for me to move forward productively
then happily you know i wasn't happy i
think that's a
key point was that i wasn't happy
training spending time in the gym and
preparing for this fight
i i feel happiness is one of the most
important things you you need when
you're working
and and training preparing for a fight
so it was i had to find the fun i had to
bring it back
and i had to find the fun in the process
and
uh you know i feel like i've done that
to get to that
top level um i know that it it
it needs a lot of support can you tell
me about
sofia yeah so uh it does take a lot of
support
i wouldn't be where i am today or
i wouldn't have achieved what i what i
have
and i wouldn't still be able to do what
i do without her she keeps
everything in play she helps me with my
diets she helps me
with my outbursts with my mushroom she
helps me
by listening she helps me just manage
everything she helps me with
the kids obviously there's so many of
them i don't look after themselves
you know it's yeah she she she is
everything to me
is it true you met when you were 15 at
paintball yes yes yes it was
were you protective i'm very i was i was
such a
little awkward insecure boy growing up
housing commission very insecure and
i don't know what it was but that one
day i just decided to be the the most
hero you have ever seen try hard
like i cringe at the thought of thinking
of what i was doing
but uh yeah i was just so out there
around her and um
i know maybe it was meant to be you did
mention about the house
pretty busy house here at massive
household you've got your
younger half brother and sister who live
with your four
kids um under five yep well school my
other brother here
at the moment as well so you call it the
village it really is
yeah yeah it's a it's a village 100 how
important is it to
live in a village um well you know
the saying it takes a village to raise a
child i i believe is very true
when my kids are interacting with with
my father or with their nunna
or with my brothers and sisters there's
just so much love
given to them and uh it's it's priceless
it really is you can't you can't put a
price on that sort of stuff
and um and it's it's it's heartwarming
to know that
my family is all together we're all
looked after we're all
you know doing quite well how did it
change her
did it change you as a fighter as a
competitor as a person when you
when you did have kids would 100 billion
what did it do
it gave me something to fight for i i
believe
you can only fighting in itself takes so
much out of you
and like i i mentioned earlier you have
to be willing to give everything for it
but how long can you do that for how
long before
a warrior puts down his sword sort of
thing
and i honestly believe that you
draw the greatest strength when you have
something worth fighting for
and when it gets hard and when
i there are points when i'm like why am
i doing this still
and there's points where i feel crushed
by the pressure
and there's points when like i'm in
training and i'm
getting absolutely ragdolled for the
third time this week you know
i just it's it's my family they get me
to the session later on to the session
tomorrow
it's it's my family like i'll be
showering my son and i
he's doing his throwing soap at me and
stuff like
dumb stuff and i'll be thinking like i'd
do this for you
and in that one moment i would i would i
would do it all
i'd do anything i'd do anything and uh
it's a small price to pay for for in my
eyes like
success can you tell us about jack
he's my oldest son he was diagnosed with
autism
and he is one of the light of my life's
disability is complicated i i was
brought into my family as the youngest
of five kids
how how was that diagnosis how did you
and
sofia go um
it's honestly i i
me and sevilla are a very good suit we
have very
like minds with our approach to certain
things and
you know when he was diagnosed it was
like it's fine for me personally my head
goes to the worst and to the best
straight away like it always just drives
straight
worst case scenario i i don't know why
i'm like this but it
if i'm preparing for something i always
count on the worst case scenario and
build from there so that
no matter what happens this is the
baseline of what can happen
and anything else is a bonus good so
straight away as soon as we said that i
was like it's fine i'll save a bunch of
money
and live with me forever and we're all
good like like and we're good
i was happy with that you know um but
obviously that's not what's going to
happen
you know he's going to go through his ot
and then all the processes but
again i'm going to bow down to sofia
because she
is amazing she is the one that has
a lot of a lot of the weight is on her
because she's the one that organizes the
ot the therapist she's the one that
has to you know get him all his um
his his paperwork in order for the
schooling and
she is a superwoman and um like i i said
this village
this career this this life doesn't
happen without her
man you are you're extremely humble but
you also speak about vulnerabilities so
comfortably in an industry that's
invulnerable how
do you feel comfortable doing that um
i don't know i don't know when it was
but in i feel
i feel in the last few years my level of
like
care for for outsider opinion
and opponent opinion and different
things
just disappeared it just went away
because
like like to my opponent i'm happy to
tell you about my vulnerabilities
but i'm probably still gonna smash you
you know i feel
like you should be worried about that
yeah and
i don't know you know just you can just
i don't know how to explain it that's
just that's just my mentality it's like
i'm doing what i'm doing and no one can
stop me whether i
whether i share with you my
vulnerabilities or not it's like this is
this is my journey this is what i'm
doing
it's almost i dare you to use my
vulnerability again yeah
it's like just just just
fix it with overwhelming power
[Laughter]
you have spoken about um experiences
with depression
when when did you first experience that
uh
so the pressure is hard it's it's
hard to to diagnose for one it's hard to
to understand it's hard to treat it's
hard
it is a hard it is a hard case it really
is and i feel for those
who are going through it um
it's it's hard to say are there levels
of depression or is depression
depression
it's i'm i don't truly understand it
that well
i do know there were periods that i felt
down
and i do know that they didn't last so
it's it's that is a very difficult topic
for me to to break into because i know
i know people going through depression
and
i really do feel for them and um it is
it is such a hard
a hard thing you know my heart bleeds
well what helps you get out of those
moments where it is dark
um so i think everybody has dark days
i think everybody feels those dark days
has those dark days
but my kids dragged me out
kicking and screaming my wife does my
video games do
my life does my i surround myself with
good people with with
positive environments and
i stick to the routine i i
even i force myself to be uncomfortable
sometimes
i do things that i don't normally do i
change
and evolve and i go with the change
that's a big thing i learned growing
growing up like aging is that
you have to go with the change you're
always changing
you know and um and it's fun it's nice
it's good
how long you're now 30 how long do you
think you have in the octagon will we
will we see you fighting at 40.
i've got a soft cap at 35
that's the soft cap of when i i want to
hang up the boots so i've got five more
good years that's what i
that's what i aim for but you know
depending of
that changes depending on my body so if
i've had some bad loss of bad knockouts
bodies not handling it i'll
leave earlier if i'm still winning still
winning more fights than i lose
body's still good head's still good
wife's happy kids are happy
i'll keep going it's a